---
title: How to create a JAMstack blog with Nuxt.js and @nuxt/content, part 1
description: This post will provide you with a glossary of the technical terms you need to know as well as the reasoning behind choosing those technologies
date: 2021-08-14
author:
  name: Santtu Nykänen
  bio: I'm a thirty-something fullstack developer from Helsinki.
  image: photo.png
---

## Glossary of terms
The title of this post has some technical terms you may or may not be familiar with.
Let's go through them one by one

* ### JAMstack  
  Wikipedia says:  

  ___"Jamstack, previously stylized as JAMStack, stands for Javascript, API and Markup
  (generated by a static site generator) and was first coined by Mathias Biilmann, CEO
  of Netlify in 2015. In Jamstack websites, the application logic typically resides on
  the client side (for example embedded e-commerce checkout that interacts with
  pre-rendered static content), without being tightly coupled to the back end server.
  They are mostly served with git based CMS or headless CMS. Netlify organizes a
  conference every year called "Popular Jamstack" that is co-hosted amongst others by
  Vercel and Cloudflare Pages.___

  ___The Jamstack is not a framework but is rather defined by Jamstack.org as an
  architecture pattern."___

* ### Nuxt.js  
  Again, a Wikipedia description:  

  ___"Nuxt.js is a free and open source web application framework based on Vue.js,
  Node.js, Webpack and Babel.js. Nuxt is inspired by Next.js, which is a framework
  of similar purpose, based on React.js.___

  ___The framework is advertised as a "meta-framework for universal applications". The
  term universal is used here with the meaning that the goal of the framework is to
  enable users to create web views in JavaScript utilizing the Vue.js single file
  component system and that can function both as in-browser single page application
  (SPA) views as well as server-rendered web views which are then (after server
  rendering) "rehydrated" to full SPA functionality. Additionally, the framework
  enables users to have the content, or parts of it, fully pre-rendered on the server
  and served in the manner of static site generators.___

  ___The benefits of this approach are, among others, reduced time to interactivity and
  improved SEO compared to SPAs, due to the fact that full contents of each page are
  being served by the web server before any client-side JavaScript is executed. Put
  alternatively, one can maintain both the benefits of traditional server-side rendered
  HTML pages, and improved interactivity and advanced user interface of SPAs. The core
  benefit of the Nuxt.js framework itself is that it makes the configuration and setup
  of such applications simplified and seamless to the application developer, who can
  simply develop UI portions of the application as if it were a more common Vue.js
  single file application. NuxtJS version 3.0 hasn't been announced by the
  developers."___
  
* ### @nuxt/content  
  @nuxt/content is a Nuxt.js module. nuxtjs.org describes it thusly: 

  ___"Empower your NuxtJS application with @nuxt/content module: write in a content/
  directory and fetch your Markdown, JSON, YAML, XML and CSV files through a MongoDB
  like API, acting as a Git-based Headless CMS."___

To be continued...
